---
layout: post
title:  "Annual Goals for 2020"
date:   2020-01-03
categories: 
---

2019 was (as a friend described it) a rollercoaster year, but a good one. Besides some scares with dad's health near the end, things were challenging but rewarding, and I was able to push myself a bit more than in 2018. Last year I made the mistake of setting too many goals, so here's another try but limited to three!

---

# Big Goals

## Build my exercise baseline.
I did more (deliberate) exercise in 2019 than I ever have (including my first 5k!), but it was in fits and spurts.

In 2020 I want to establish a baseline of regular exercise including both cardio and strength every week.

## Take Toro to the next stage.
In 2019 I moved Toro from, essentially, just a concept, to the beginnings of an actual business. Egor and I started from scratch, built and iterated on an MVP product, found our early adopters, raised seed capital, and started hiring.

In 2020 I want to use the fresh fuel in the tank to build a great business. A great business means: a product that effectively solves the pain our customers are feeling, a strong team that can build and sell that product, and most importantly, a growing network of customers who love working with us.

## Travel again.
2018 was a year of relocating: from Seattle to San Diego and from there to New York. It felt like Amy and I rarely had capacity for much besides a few tango events, two weddings, and family holiday time.

_Exception: The Torres Del Paine W loop was amazing and I'm so glad I said yes to that trip (though I want to go back someday when Amy is ready for the two steep sections)._

In 2020 I want to plan a few real trips (not just long weekends) to new places. Importantly: they don't need to be backpacking or pushing my physical limits, just getting out there and enjoying the time spent somewhere new. Bonus points if we rondezvous with friends!

---

# Little Goals
- Eating more fish and vegetables, less land protein.  
- DJ for tango more often. Starting small with local events, but regularly (monthly?). Bonus points if I do anything outside of NYC or SF.  
- Read more (I did read significantly more in 2019 but let's keep going).  
- Deliberately lengthen my continuous attention span.  
- Set up regular donations to things I care about: Wikipedia, KEXP, ACLU, EFF?  
- Getting outside regularly again to hike, camp, and backpack.  